[Music]
so you're walking on the beach
it's nice relaxing you ever look out at
the open sea and thought what if I got
swept away out there what would happen
to me well luckily for most of us this
is an unlikely scenario for a typical
beach goer but this nightmare can come
true if you're a fisherman and something
has gone terribly wrong on your trip
that's exactly what happened to one man
who spent over a year alone out in the
middle of the Pacific Ocean on November
17th 2012 37 year old Jose Salvador
alvarenga headed out on his fishing trip
his plan was pretty ambitious he was
going to spend 30 hours in the open
ocean this should have been enough time
to catch plenty of fish but not too much
time to where he'd run out of food
alvarenga planned to stay overnight in
his canoe shaped boat the boat was 25
feet long and had neither a cabin nor
any roof if everything worked out then
chances were he'd bring home some big
catch and make good money this trip was
going to be dangerous and naturally the
man couldn't hit the water without a
second pair of hands alvarenga x' usual
fishing partner couldn't go with him so
he needed to find a replacement finally
he found a 22 year old volunteer who
agreed to step in the pair set out on
their journey at 10 a.m.
they wanted to work non-stop until 4:00
p.m. the next day the men had loaded the
boat with a lot of equipment and fishing
gear they had also taken a four by five
foot ice box to keep their catch fresh
what the men hadn't brought was an
anchor or enough food since they suppose
that their trip wasn't going to take
that long Alfa ringa knew that a storm
was rapidly approaching the area but
nothing could stop the fishermen from
starting the journey
when they were 75 miles away from the
shore the storm started to gain strength
it was already raging on land but hadn't
reached the fishermen yet by that time
they had already caught about a thousand
pounds of fish that's when the heavy
rain started the storm had reached the
men the boat began to fill with water
the water was rising much faster than
the men were able to get rid of it and
the boat was about to capsize so
alvarenga had to take drastic measures
he dumped all the fish and several
thousand dollars worth of equipment into
the ocean he managed to take control
over the emergency and directed the boat
toward the shore
chalky white all their homeport was
about six hours away some time later
they saw the mountains in the distance
the two fisherman's hopes lifted they
were almost home they were just 15 miles
away from the shore when their boats
engine started to falter and then died
at this point even experienced Alvarenga
was getting worried he used the radio
they had on deck to contact his boss the
latter understood how dire the situation
was he needed to know the boats location
to send help the GPS the men had with
them wasn't waterproof so water had
gotten inside the device during the
storm and it wasn't working it also
turned out that the battery in the radio
was low and several minutes after
Alvarenga had started talking to his
boss the radio died the only way out was
to lay anchor and wait for a rescue team
but remember Alvarenga hadn't taken an
anchor on this supposedly short fishing
trip
the fisherman's boss sent help
immediately because he realized how
dangerous the situation was at any
moment the boat could start drifting
into the open ocean the man also
notified the authorities about what had
happened to the boat
several vessels and aircraft started a
search-and-rescue operation that lasted
for two days but the weather was
gradually getting worse and it
eventually became impossible to keep
searching alvarenga and his fishing
partner were left on their own and five
days later when the winds had died down
a bit
they were 280 miles away from the shore
out in the middle of the Pacific Ocean
with nothing but blue water all around
them now what do you know about the
Pacific yes it's very peaceful hence the
name but it's also big really really big
in fact it's the biggest ocean on the
planet
it covers 64 million square miles which
is almost 30 percent of the Earth's
surface and if you take all the
continents combined landmass you'll get
only 57 million square miles that's
right it's bigger than all the Earth's
land combined there are 171 million
cubic miles of water in the Pacific
Ocean which makes almost half of all the
oceanic water on the planet the Pacific
also holds the title for the world's
deepest ocean it's average depth is
14,000 feet which is 3,000 feet deeper
than the Atlantic's average now you see
how hopeless the situation look for
alvarenga and his young companion they
had to survive in this vast expanse of
water without any equipment sure there
are anywhere from 25,000 to 30,000
islands in the Pacific Ocean but the
fishermen had to be exceptionally lucky
to come across just one of them several
days after they drifted into the open
ocean the men were struggling to keep on
without food and more importantly water
what more problem was the blistering Sun
beating down on them at the same time
the nights were freezing but at least
Alvarenga and his partner could get
inside the empty ice box to stay warm
the
worst thing was terrible thirst finally
the stranded men caught a lucky break it
started to rain they previously picked
up some plastic bottles floating in the
water when their boat passed by them so
the fishermen managed to save enough
drinking water to hang on for at least a
week during their voyage they fed
themselves on raw fish and turtles that
they caught with their bare hands
they also grabbed birds that were
unlucky enough to land on the boat
miraculously this food was enough for
the men to stay alive but they were
getting weak especially over in his
fishing partner
tragically he did fall ill and wasn't
able to survive Alvarenga was left all
on his own in the middle of nowhere he
tried to distract himself by gathering
what little food sources he could and
dreaming about all the things he do when
he got home but would that day ever come
the chances were more and more slim the
fisherman spent months adrift in the
boat the boat kept going until one day
he saw land it was a small island
Tyl islet that was part of the Marshall
Islands after a whopping 438 days in the
open sea On January 30th 2014 Alvarenga
finally stepped on land at first he
thought that the island was uninhabited
and he was right but he then managed to
reach nearby and Nia talked islet where
two locals found and picked up the
exhausted man it turned out that
Alvarenga had traveled almost 7,000
miles before he got to the shore and he
was fortunate to come across the island
had he missed it the next stop would
have been the Philippines and that's
3,000 miles further away which probably
would have been about 200 more days
added to his already very very long
journey
remember Alvarenga couldn't sail ro
navigate or paddle
he only drifted aimlessly after 11 days
of rest and recuperation the rescued
fisherman had recovered enough to fly
home to el salvador jose salvador
alvarenga voyage was an unprecedented
example of what you get when you mix a
whole lot of bad luck some very good
luck and a person's sheer will to
survive now what would you do if you got
stranded in the middle of the ocean let
everybody know in the comments and
remember to hit that like button share
this video with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]